We're going to start off doing some basic data manipulation by reading a data set from a CSP file and
then manipulating it, just as you would do with Banda's or a similar library in another language for
this purpose.
We are going to use the data frames and CSP package.
So CSU package is dedicated for reading and writing data from and to CSP files, whereas data frames
package is kind of the equivalent of Banda's.
It's a package that allows you to read, manipulate and back tabular data.
So for both of these, you might want to install them.
If they're not previously installed.
I have them installed, so I'm going to skip those two cells and do using data frames and then using
CSS.
We now we can go ahead and read this year's file using CSV file and give it the name of this history
file that we have.
So we've saved this in data folder.
So over here and we are going to read this using this GSV dot file function, you will see a weird sort
of a syntax over here.
So this is the pipe symbol.
What this does is the output of this function call is passed through the data frame constructor, but
it's kind of a shortcut for taking the output of one function call and sending it to another function.
This reduces the lines of code by a lot.
And you'll see this again and again and you understand it when you try to run it.
So this creates a data frame for us, which is essentially pendas data.
If you haven't seen data frames before, it's simply a tabular structure.
OK, so let's wait and run that.
And the first time you run it, it's going to take a little bit of time, just as with everything in
Julia.
But after that, it should be really fast.
So this should be a structure that is very familiar to you.
So we have some data points over here and we have some columns over here.
So X1 to X4 and we want to vie for we can access particular cities within this data frame.
So one data series, or you can think of this as a column using the dot operator so we can say D.F.
Dot and column name X1.
So that gives us the values of just that column, or you can even use this with a string.
So dot string x1 and that is the same thing.
If you want to access particular rows you can use this index or one to four and column should be excellent.
So excellent column.
Just the first four rows.
This works really well.
If you want to access some particular columns based on some pattern, you can use something very similar
to the regular expression.
So you can say D.F. and are X.
What that means is I'm going to give you this raw string and anything that matches this pattern of X
should be done.
So this is going to return x1 x2 three and four and Vyse are going to be omitted because they don't
match this pattern.
OK, so just some basic stuff.
And as you can see, D.F. itself remains the same.
So all of this election does not affect the data frame.
It's just what is being returned to us.
Right now you can access particular rows and you can access particular columns.
Those are the basic two things that we have to do.
There are many of the things that we have to do and we'll get to them as we take a look at other case
studies in the future videos.
But for now, let's go ahead and describe this data.
So if you say describe D.F., it's going to give us some basic statistics about this.
So for each of the columns, it's going to tell us the mean, the minimum, the median, the max number
of missing values and the element type.
So these are integers and these are flops.
All the values that float X values are integers and all the X columns are integers.
If you want to get a particular value out, you can pass these as arguments to the function describe
and this will return just those things for you.
So just the mean and the standard deviation.
If you want to get the number of rows and columns you can say and rodef for rows and called for columns,
you can also just say size D.F. if you want to get both of them at the same time.
Now let's go ahead and insert some identifiers in this dataset.
So this is an example of how you can insert a new column in an existing data frame.
Right.
So if you want to calculate something based on the values and then insert them, this is how you do
it.
So you can simply say the ID is equal to and because you are not selecting it, but assigning it, this
is going to take these values.
So want to enroll.
So this is going to be one to eleven and this is going to go as the ID column of D.F..
So this is going to be inserted now into the death and you will see that ID column has been inserted
that goes from one to 11.
This was not present over here.
So that is how you then insert columns.
What else can we do if we can find out the extreme of the values in this whole dataset?
So, for instance, if you say XtremIO of all of these, so this is going to go ahead and calculate
the extreme extreme values for this.
So the minimum in these is two and the maximum is 13.
So it ignores all the rows and columns and just gives us that.
So what we want to do is we want to figure out the minimum value, the absolute minimum value on all
of these X's and the absolute maximum values in all of these vice.
And the reason for that is we are going to plot them.
And for that we need the limits for the X axis and the Y axis.
So we want to know what the minimum value of is are in all of the columns combined and what the minimum
and maximum are for the values for all the columns combined, because we want to give the same X limits
and Y limits to all the different plots that we're going to try and create.
So we are going to plot X one against Y one X2 against Y2, X against Y three and four against Y four.
So these are going to be four different plots, but we want them to have the same X and Y limits.
It'll make sense when we see the output.
But for now our objective is to calculate the extremophile Xs separately and Y separately.
OK, so we can go ahead and first select the X columns.
So Select Dogmatics is going to return all of these.
We're going to build this one by one.
So now from here we can convert all of this into Imitrex.
So this is what we had in the previous.
And now we are going to convert this into a matrix.
So that gives us this.
Go ahead.
Now we can calculate the extremes, just as we did over here.
And this is going to give us the extreme minimum and the extreme maximum.
Right.
But when you're actually doing the plotting, you want to slightly overshoot the maximum and slightly
undershoot the minimum.
So our plots should go from three to 20.
So for that, we are going to use the broadcast operator.
And what this is going to do is it's going to add minus one to four and plus one to 19, giving us 320
back.
Right.
So.
This is a very common structure of how we get the minimum and maximum for blocks, so that is why we
are coming this as a gay city over here.
And once you see the plot, all of this is going to make sense.
OK, now we want to convert them into an array because that is what the plot package expects.
So we can simply use the correct function and that is going to go ahead and convert this into a to elementary,
both of which are in 64.
OK, so once we have this for the limit, we are going to do the exact same thing for Valemus, except
this time we're not going to do them one by one.
Instead, we'll just do the whole thing at once.
So our limits are two point one to thirteen point seven four, as you can see over here.
So the max is thirteen point seven four and the limit is two point one for us.
Now, what we're going to do is we're going to actually do the plot and we're going to do it using two
methods, the first method we saw in the previous video.
So plotting so we can use the plots package and that does really good plots.
But if you're coming from a language such as Python and you already have code for matplotlib and you've
already done all of that, in that case, you don't have to relearn everything.
You can simply use your python or matplotlib code using the pilot package so you can go ahead and say
using pilot.
And then because we also want a regression line on this model, we want to do using GLM.
So this is generalized linear models.
It's not important what this is.
You'll see what this means in a minute.
So we have using Glemp because we now have Bayport, we can use the matplotlib syntax for creating this
plot.
So Afikomen access is going to be built.
Subplots, we're going to create a two by two, which means for total plots, one for each of X1, x2,
extra and X4.
OK.
We're going to set the layout as a very tight one, and we are going to create four plots, four in
one to four for each of these plots, we are going to take X one and Y one, and we are going to use
this GEULA model to predict the regression line.
So let me go ahead and just brought this first and then I'll show you what we're doing.
OK, so this is the plot we have x1 against one extra against Y, three x2 against Y2 and X for, against
Y for.
So you'll notice over here that all the elements are the same for all of these plots and the limits
are also the same.
So you'll notice over here the X2 has the maximum at around 15, but we're still going all the way up
to 20 because we want all four of these plots to look the same.
OK, so that we can do the comparison.
OK, so here's what the function does.
It gets the X and Y symbols out.
Then it does a linear model, which is this guy over here.
So this orange line is created using this model variable.
And this model variable is essentially a linear model which is learned from this dataset.
OK, so the relationship between VI and X is learned from this data set using the L.M. function.
So if you're not familiar with linear models or regression, this is just telling us how violent changes
as you change X1.
So it's not really all that important.
Now we are going to do the actual plot.
We are going to give it the X limits and we are going to plot the regression line in orange over here.
So we're going to predict based on this model and based on this data set from the minimum of the limit
to the maximum of the limit.
So all this is doing is plotting the regression.
Like then we are also plotting the scatterplot, using D.F. all the rows and economy and D.F. all the
rows y column.
So that's how scatterplot we are setting the X limits and Y limits and giving it the label over here.
So this we are doing for each of the plots.
Finally, we are doing this calculation overhead as well because we are assuming y to be linearly dependent
on X1.
We are defining what the model has learned from the data.
So as you will see, all four of these are exactly the same.
So point five three point zero point five three point zero point five three point zero point five three
point zero.
But the actual data looks very different from each other.
OK, so that's the whole point of this.
What we are doing over here is essentially looking at how you can go ahead and plot data, how you can
create a basic regression model or a linear model based on your data and how you can plot different
things using a very compact format.
OK, so that's what we have over here.
Now we can do the same thing using blocks and you will see that the actual code looks a lot cleaner.
So we're going to do using blocks and we are going to create a plot array and this is going to be an
array of type.
Any the reason for this is that it just makes our life a lot easier because we can simply push different
plots into this plot array within this loop.
So we're going to create four plots, push them into the plot array and finally use a single plot function
to plot all of these arrays together.
So once you are comfortable with Julia, you will see that this code is a lot messier and you code looks
a lot cleaner.
If you just look at it, it looks cleaner.
OK, so our X Files are going to come from our data frame.
So are our rivals.
And then we are going to do the plot for X and Y.
Well, we're going to tell it that it should be a scatterplot.
The X label and my level are set X limits and Y limits are set.
We are going to put smoothies equal to true, which is going to do the regression line for us.
We don't have to go to Glenmorangie and model.
It's going to take care of that for us.
And finally we set about it as well.
Once we have the plot V, we push them into an array.
So this is just putting that plot into the array so that we can later on plot them all together, OK?
So once we're done with all four plots, we are going to say plot and we are going to give it plot ready,
except we are going to use the DataDot operator, which we saw in 03 01 functions that I buy and be.
So we are splatting the values.
So these one, two, three were converted into three different parameters.
Similarly, we are going to convert all the different plots on the four plots that we have over here.
Those four are going to be passed to the plot function separately.
Layout is going to be two by two.
Legend is going to be absent and the size is going to be set at eight hundred four hundred.
So that creates the plots for us.
So when you try to do that, you're going to get this added over here both by plots and the plot function
export plot.
And because you should not be overriding the global exports, this is going to give you an error.
So the really easy thing for that is you simply restart the kernel so you should pick one or the other.
Here I am presenting both of them so that you have the option here.
We are going to go ahead and restart the kernel and simply load our data again.
So we are going to load our data.
We are going to define our limit and my limit and then jump straight to our plot.
And do the actual plotting, so now your address should be gone.
There you go.
I think the code as well as the output looks pretty clean and it serves the same purpose.
OK, so the point of this video was No one ready to do some basic manipulation and then see two ways
of doing the actual plotting.
I personally prefer doing plots package from Julia because, one, it's native to it looks really clean
and it lets you get familiar with Julias Index so that you can use the much more powerful libraries
which are present in Julia.
In the next video, we are going to do some further data manipulation and we are going to do some in-depth
analysis after that.